
/*!

\page faq Frequently Asked Questions

\section faq_new New FAQ

These are FAQs that have arisen since the release of XLW version 3.0.

- \ref NumArgs

\section faq_old Old FAQ

This is the original FAQ that accompanied XLW version 1.0.

- \ref WhenCom
- \ref WhenNotCom
- \ref IsItCpp
- \ref Legacy
- \ref diffxlldll
- \ref sr1

\section NumArgs How Many Arguments Are Supported For Addin Functions?

Excel 2007 (and XLW 3.0) support user defined functions with up to 255
arguments.

Excel versions up to and including 2003 have a limit of 30 function arguments.
But there is an effective limit of 20 arguments for user defined functions.
This is because you must register your function by calling xlfRegister, which
is itself limited to 30 arguments.  xlfRegister uses 10 of its arguments to
register the function, leaving 20 slots for the descriptions of the arguments
to your addin function.  XLW ought to raise an exception on an attempt to
register a function with more than 20 arguments under Excel <= 2003, but it
doesn't - the error is forwarded to Excel, which silently fails to register
the function.

It is in fact possible to register a user defined function with up to 30
arguments, by omitting descriptions for arguments beyond the 20th.  The 21st
and later arguments are valid but appear in the Function Wizard with no
descriptions.  XLW doesn't support this trick.

The limit can be circumvented in any case with an argument list.

\section WhenCom When should I use COM?
The COM interface based on former OLE 2.0 offers a different approach than the
one used by the C API. A full discussion is beyond the scope of this document
and you should certainly read \ref XLSDK97. I will give though a couple of
elements to help you in your choice:
- The Excel C API is particular to Excel, don't expect to make it run with
anything else (even not MS Access). On the contrary, COM is a protocol that
goes beyond MS by now.
- The Excel C API can not persist data between calls. You will be forced to
name the variable and reference them via key strings. On the contrary, COM
allows you to build components which can store data between calls.
- In the same idea, your C API based XLL is not able to determine when to
call a callback in excel. Your XLL behaves as a dumb slave, unable to do
anything unless Excel asked it to do so. Some constraints exist with COM
but they are certainly not as drastic as those involved by the C API.

\section WhenNotCom When shouldn't I use COM?
When you only want to extend the built-in Excel functions with your own
routines. It is much faster to develop it with the C++ framework than going
through the development of a new COM component.

I also found the code much easier to debug and maintain than using COM,
where a lot goes under cover.

If performance is an issue for you, you are likely to observe a degradation
with COM and OLE due to the overhead of the protocol. It is certainly not
as big as one might think, but the C API can \e not be any slower than COM,
expecially if you manipulate plain data type like double or integer.

\section IsItCpp Is the Excel API in C or in C++?
In C. The C++ framework is actually a wrapper around the C framework that you
find in the file xlcall32.h. A lot of work is saved by using the
C++ framework. It hides much the complexity with no additional work
beyond what you would have done in any case with a bare C API. This is
particularly true with regard to character string and ranges of cells,
that are really messy to handle.

\section Legacy Isn't Excel C API a technology of the past?
This technology looks a little bit out-dated with the avenment of the
component technologies like COM, Corba, or Java beans.
On the other hand, this technique works for me and serves me very well for
what I want to do. It is still supported by Microsoft 2000 and will remain
a part of Excel as long as Excel will live according to Microsoft
(see \ref XLSDK97). Why bother then?

\section diffxlldll What's the difference between an xll and a dll?
You just said it: the name extension. Dlls dedicated to excel are often
renamed xll to emphasize their purpose and make them easily recognizable
by the extension pattern of the Excel file dialog box which looks by
default for xl? files.

\section sr1 Excel crashes when I run the demo xll !
Check that your are running a patched version of Excel (SR-1 or SR-2).
The original Excel97 is known to be buggy with regard to the C API. In
particular Excel causes a global protection fault after
- a call to xlCoerce on a cell containing a character string.
- a call to xlCoerce on a cell containing =ran().<p>

Special thanks to Laurent Longre for his page: \ref longre.

*/

